hey guys we're doing high bar pour
sports today it's pretty cool because
I'm training with sunny and something I
love training about him is he's got the
same mindset as me in that he just wants
to get really strong but we normally do
different things except today we're not
doing different things we've both come
off pretty busy weekends and we've
decided that we're both going to have
kind of easy squat days so we have heavy
days and we have light bears and this is
both of our light days and we've both
fallen on the same light day and we've
both fallen on the same session which is
going to be high bar pause squats so
when we do have our post squats
something I love about it is it really
complements my low bus work with the low
bus what especially with me wraps the
knee wraps take out my quadriceps
because the knees the knee wraps act as
very strong knee joint extensors which
is what the quadriceps do so that means
when I do a lot of knee wraps squatting
I'm neglecting my quads so therefore I
need to make up for that in my accessory
squat days by doing no knee wrap stuff
and a more quad dominant style of
squatting which is a high bar squat the
next thing I love a pause because when
you're squatting really heavy weights
with knee wraps on it's really hard to
gauge when you've hit depth so something
that I do when I'm in a competition is i
guide the way down to the bottom until I
feel that I'm at the right depth so you
can't really attack it like you really
would with that a normal sleeve kind of
squat if you can attack it I'd say it's
even stronger because then you get to
really utilize the bounce in the bottom
of the squat but for an e-wrap squad
with the goals that I have I'm not going
to be able to score it really fast
I'm not going to be able to attack it
I'm gonna have to really guide it and
control it and this is where a pause
squat really comes into play one more
reason why I like a high bar with a high
bust what compared to a low bar squat
the torso position is really upright
with a low bust what it's going to push
you forward a little bit but because
it's pushing you forward if I'm going
for my
goal is 400 kilograms and if you let 400
kilograms push you forward it's just
going to keep on pushing you forward and
you're going to land flat on your face
so the goal even though it's a low bar
support is to stay as upright as
possible it's still going to be forward
lean but the goal is to force your torso
as upright as possible so that's a lot
of great reasons why a high bar poor
squat is my number one accessory
exercise to complement my low bar
competition style of squat with knee
wraps so today is my first session back
into high bar squats with a pause I'm
probably going to have this as my light
accessory day maybe for the next six
weeks I've just set it to sunny my goal
is 300 kilograms not today I'm going to
work towards that if I can do a 300
kilogram high bar pause squat that's
that's a nice number
anyway that's what I'm gonna do today
and Sunny's going to be doing it as well
so he's still got some slightly
different style of squat to me and now
we're going to be doing the same type of
squat but you guys can judge for
yourself our technique is still going to
be slightly different he's got a really
strong quads and I've got really strong
hips and core that's where I get my
strength for my low bar for squats but
anyway hope you enjoy the session yeah
that's what's going on YouTube yes I'm
jumping impasses session today on the
high bar full squat this isn't too
different to what I normally do on my
squatting style because I support high
bar anyway and I'll always go bollocks
in socks the reason why I stick high bar
in for me is an accessory training there
is because obviously when I'm normally
squatting you'll see that I attack and
drop into the bottom position to use the
bounce to help me stand up so there's
that lowest part of the squat that
doesn't really get as much work as it
could be gained when I'm doing my normal
squat so for me practicing doing the
pause for in the bottom position helps
me drive aggressively out the bottom of
the hole which will carry over nicely
into the squat and into the snap but
then also for the clean as well if I'm
ever getting stuck
in position it's good to be able to have
this strength to drive out the lowest
part of the clean so this is what
perfect accessory exercise for me
bastard he's gonna do 260 today if he
does 260 I'm gonna go for 220 which
would be a lifetime PB on the poor squat
so although it's gonna be a light day
it's a heavy [__] day too
let's go
[Music]
[Applause]
many more over me
if I play on it he's gonna care
[Music]
okay so pause pause hi boss what's done
I ended up doing 270 mainly because I
was kind of going up in those positions
it's gonna look better on the bar top
five
then for rent and a blue and sunny
smoked he's 220 and I saw just how do
you guys know I'm probably 20 kilograms
heavier than Sonny so you know I just
lived heavier weights for that race and
I'm a lot bigger but otherwise that was
both I'd say that yours was a lot easier
than one was today lifetime PB I I kind
of will say that mine was a lifetime PB
I've done it before but the pause is
like what's go it's stressful when
you're at the bottom with a heavy weight
on your back but after watching after
watching Sonny get his newspaper out and
have a read when he was at the bottom of
his I thought I can't tell let the team
down so that was actually I'm gonna
consider that's the first time I've
actually done a proper pause with that
much weight which is excellent right
there for both of us now we're gonna do
a little bit more work so I didn't know
what I was going to do but after
watching Sonny he's doing one in the
quarter squats as still high bar and
he's dropped away and that's what I've
done as well we both dropped away to a
weight that's not intimidating for us
it's just easy and it's where we're
going to get some some good quality
volume in and the exercises that he's
doing one and a quarter squat so for him
he was talking about you know he's fast
what he lacks the strength development
in that bottom phase of his squat
because he's usually
slamming and I'm bouncing out of the
hole so that's why he likes these poor
squats and this sunny am I correct by
saying that's the exact same reason why
you're doing one and a quarter squats
now strengthening the sticking point for
me I won't say that it's my sticking
point but I will say that you can't be
too strong in that bottom position that
is the weakest part of the squat so I'm
gonna do the same thing so now yeah I
stripped it to 170 kilograms how many
reps you doing triples
I'll do triples as well we'll get a bit
of volume in I'll do three sets of three
Sonny's already done a few sets he's
still going you need to keep the knees
forward in order to be able to use your
quads to drive out the lower space which
I suppose for a powerlifter Neoga tone
wouldn't travel as much as it will do
for a weightlifter so it kind of becomes
like the perfect accessory especially if
you try to build the quads and keep the
knees over the toes when you're driving
through the sticking point instead of
letting the hip shift back onto what
most people yeah that's exactly right
and that's that's exactly why that's the
weak point for power lifters is we don't
push the knees forward but I'll tell you
something funny about the knee wrap
technique to get the most out of the
knee wraps yeah you want to push the
knees into the wrap so so this style of
pushing the knees forward is going to
really carry over to my to my low bar
wrap squat just starting to squat you
won't get taught necessarily to put
knees over the toes or let them travel
forward because people suggest it's bad
but actually for weightlifting and for
powerlifting we're both essentially
coaching that skill at their heavier
loads either with your wraps or as for a
weight lifter needs every toes in the
bottom to achieve a more upright
position and to capitalize on the leg
strength the cord strength as opposed to
necessarily hips and glutes
this is kind of my belt position I
prefer it up here actually I learned
this from Eric Lillibridge he uses a
very high bail position and I started so
they were mentors of mine Eric and his
dad
Ernie senior there are mentors of mine I
met them in 2014 and yeah a lot of my
SWAT work comes from these guys they're
the best squatters in the world of the
powerlifting style and he uses a high
bail position for the SWAT team for the
deadlifts I found that for the deadlift
in particular it allows me to achieve
the bottom position without the belt
getting the weight of my belly or the
skin around my guts literally just above
my hip bone when I'm doing causes I'll
going right into the bottom I do come
out which is why a lot of weightlifting
belts are actually normally shaped but
bass got me into using a pair of thin
belt for my squats and it does make a
[__] world of difference
sunny boots
my name is put up over the top of the
rib cage so so that's the thing is well
it's not just about like where's the
most ideal position for what it does is
it increases intra-abdominal pressure so
imagine this is a really this is a
balloon my torso is a balloon you wrap a
rope around the center of the balloon
and the pressure of the air inside the
balloon gets harder so that's what's
happening inside my body so we're about
to be placed for that to happen best
well there's that
and then the next factor is you got ribs
on the top pelvis in the bottom and if
it sticks in for either of those it
hurts in it will interfere with your
movement so therefore I go over I use a
looser setting but I put it over the top
of my ribs so when I get in the bottom
it doesn't pinch anything it doesn't dig
into the ribs it's over the top of the
ribs and over the years I've recommended
this to a lot of my lifters half of them
love it swear by it the other half just
prefer it like we're some ears and so
for me it's not this isn't a black and
white thing I wouldn't say my way is
better than yours or vice versa it's
definitely a comfort thing for me apply
as comfortable for sunny 12 13 14 years
before I met bass for me to change now
to brave somewhere completely different
would be too difficult but I think if
you're in your first two to three years
it's worth trying
the hi about position boots were
probably adapt quite quickly but for me
there was just one sweet
[Applause]
so Sonny mentioned that he likes to
bring his hands in close to create upper
back tightness I do as well but my
mobility my shoulders doesn't allow me
to get as part of Sonny so the rule that
I have is the same rule that he has
which is bringing the hands as close to
shoulder mobility allows his sort of
mobility allows him to get close mine
doesn't so people ask me why are you
holding it so white because it's as
close as I can get but that's the wrong
the way that I say it is pretty plates
and round numbers today I worked up to
five Red's to my top set sometimes I'll
just take one plate off to do my back
down set but I'm especially tired today
so I took off two plates
2:22 160 which is still not a percentage
when you can calculate with percentages
at home but that's not how we calculated
it today it's kind of just the weight
that we know is heavy enough to create
some kind of stimulus with enough volume
in the session but not so heavy that
it's going to break down technique or
beat us up for the next session so
absolutely like I don't even know what
Sony's week his plan but I can guarantee
you he's going to be training most days
he just came back from 152 kilogram
snatch on Friday and you know that's a
big it's not his best there but he's
done more than that but there was many
years ago
so so in a long time this is the
heaviest cities actually been so for him
you know that's a heavy session couple
days later he's doing another heavy
session now I guarantee you in a couple
of days when we do another heavy session
so if you smash yourself too much on one
day it's pretty hard to have so many
heavy sessions in the week because I'd
normally do four exercises in one
training day so it'd only be one hard
one and for easier ones whereas now I do
is I'll do a hard session every other
day pretty much I'm not doing any other
work now but it's ordinarily I'd be
doing another three exercises after I
finish squat so I'm able to recover a
little bit better than what I would
normally last say of the day let's just
do it
anyway
[Applause]
nice Thank You session thank you and
we're done we're done this is us now I
think that was a pretty efficient
session that was excellent I'm really
happy with that we both did
top set on paws squad and then I did 3x3
he did about five or six by three and
we're done so now we're going to get on
with the rest of our day and we'll see
you guys next time click like subscribe
that's Sonny Webster GB give him a
follow you probably already are if
you're following me click like subscribe
any comments any questions below and
we'll see you guys next time
hope you enjoyed